# case-study-robinhood

With its nuanced philosophy and innovative business model, Robinhood, the commission-free trading platform, permanently altered the retail investing landscape for the foreseeable future. The founders of Robinhood, Vladimir Tenev and Bajiu Bhatt, sought to empower younger Americans to engage with capital markets. After graduating from Stanford and embarking on their professional undertakings, Tenev and Bajiu noticed a glaring contradiction within the financial world. While large Wall Street firms pay no fees to trade securities, average Americans must pay commission for every single trade they place. The commission fees that brokerage charge retail investors, in turn, impede the flow of capital into financial markets. The money that investors pay in transaction fees could be used for other investments or other economic pursuits. Once the pair identified this inefficiency, Tenev and Bajiu moved back to California to solve this issue and reestablish balance in the investment world. The duo aimed to eliminate the existing investing framework's shortcomings and allow the average American to enjoy a large Wall Street firm's same advantages.

 Robinhood has had many successful rounds of funding over the past several years that have aided its meteoric rise. In total, Robinhood has raised 1.7$ billion dollars in funding, which translates into an 11.2$ billion-dollar valuation. Many notable investors have provided financing for Robinhood, including D1 Partners, Kleiner Perkins, the Sequoia Fund, and GV, Google's venture capital arm. These organizations saw the need for an investment tool like Robinhood, and their investments function as votes of confidence in Tenev and Baiju's vision.

Keeping their ambition to facilitate retail investments at the forefront of their minds, Tenev and Bajiu utilized the power of technology to create Robinhood, which breaks down the barriers to invest by removing fees and allows everyone to take part in America's financial system. The no-fee trading solution that Tenev and Bajiu came to simultaneously lead them to the target demographic for Robinhood's user base. The perk of commission-free trading appeals to younger investors who allocate more value to their money, since they aren't as far along into their careers nor as wealthy as older Americans. By design, the intended Robinhood customer are Millennials, Americans born between the years 1981-1996. The age range of millennials is between 23 to 39, and the Robinhood user's median age is 31 years old. Every other retail trading platform was conceived when traits and preferences of Millennials, future adults, were unknown. TD Ameritrade and Charles Shwab were established in 1971, exactly ten years before the first millennial was born. Consumer preferences in 1971 differ significantly from what they are in 2020. Robinhood's youth, invitation program, and customer friendly interfacing give it an advantage over its competitors in recruiting new users. Robinhood's success as a company and its record user growth rate reflect the need for a product like this in such a saturated market. Trading platforms have shunned younger investors for years, but Robinhood has opened up the doors of investing to them. Through the elimination of fees and streamlining the investment process, the investment tool has become the fastest-growing brokerage firm in history.

Tenev and Bajiu invented Robinhood when millennials were progressing into adulthood, and their preferences as consumers were becoming more apparent. The time period people mature in dramatically influences their preferences. The world in 2020 is almost unrecognizable from the world in 1980. Tenev and Bajiu had the unique opportunity to craft Robinhood in the image of what appeals to coming of age investors or in other words, investors of the twenty-first century. Robinhood currently has 10 million users in 2020, and the millennial population in America stands at roughly 72.12 million. Suppose you assume that every user is a millennial. In that case, Robinhood holds a 14% market share of millennial investors. However, assuming only Millennials use Robinhood neglects another emerging population, Generation Z. Although the users' median age is 31, it is essential to note that members of Generation Z also use Robinhood to invest. Members of Generation Z also have a strong desire to invest, and their consumer preferences more closely resemble that of Millennials. There are 67.17 million members of Generation Z in the American population. These figures and assertions suggest that Robinhood still has plenty of room to grow its userbase since younger Americans will want to invest, and Robinhood's interface resonates with what younger investors desire in an online trading app. When faced with newer or older trading platforms, new investors choose the newer ones that are more customer-friendly, easier to use and save them the most money.

Robinhood's leverages modern technological innovations with the now known preferences of younger investors and compliments. The app incorporates many aspects that draw in the new age investors. The app has a sleek, easy-to-use design, and Robinhood offers a cheap subscription-based membership program called Robinhood Gold that unlocks even more features for investors. The Robinhood app engages the user like a social media app, causing the user to feel more comfortable with the platform and makes trading even more accessible.

After the market crash caused by Covid-19, an unprecedented number of young investors flocked to the trading app to take advantage of equities' discounted value. The influx of young investors again helped strengthened Robinhood's foothold in the market yet highlighted many shortcomings.

Robinhood uses many different tools to develop and build out their app. The company's technology mainly helped the developers create the app, build out the app, manage the traffic, and make sure transactions are secure. Amazon Web Services is Robinhood's primary tool as they use more than 18 different features AWS has to offer.  AWS allowed Robinhood to scale their business as quickly as they needed, given their speedy growth. Thanks to AWS, Robinhood only required two people to scale out the entire system over time. The developers also used Django for the sleek design of the app while it was in development. Django allows its users to "focus on writing [the] app without needing to reinvent the wheel." Django also powers Robinhood's two-factor verification system for the app. For analytics and searches, Robinhood uses ELK, which stands for Elasticsearch, Logstash, and Kibana. ELK is a three-part tool that works in tandem to gather process and display data. According to Mihajlo Pavloski of intermix.com, "Logstash is responsible for collecting, parsing and transforming logs, before passing them on to Elasticsearch, while data is visualized through Kibana." 







Robinhood has experienced a great deal of early success compared to its competitors. E-Trade, TD Ameritrade, and Charles Schwab are Robinhood's main competitors. The primary way to evaluate a brokerage's success is to judge one by the total value of assets under management or the amount of money invested on the platform. Each one of Robinhood's competitors has a larger total value of assets under management with 9.7$ billion, 19.5$ billion, and 50.4$ billion, respectively. However, Robinhood has managed to amass a total of 7.6$ billion in seven years of activity, which proves its viability as a trading platform.

Robinhood's existence has challenged traditional retail investing practices and changed the way investors engage with their brokerage firms. Robinhood brought an entirely new segment of people into the world of investing previously shunned from it. Now, account minimums and transaction fees are slowly becoming outdated conventions because of Robinhood. Other companies have had to adapt and conform to the new standards Robinhood has brought into being. Its competitors have had to redesign their apps and lower fees as much as possible to remain competitive. Robinhood has made the investment process frictionless and challenged traditional retail investing conceptions, yet problems have surfaced as Robinhood rose to prominence.


 Robinhood has experienced several growing pains as a young and successful company. One that directly ties to its fast growth is server crashes. On days filled with big swings in the stock market, a large amount of Robinhood users try to buy and sell stocks at the same time, especially at the start of the trading day. The high traffic causes the app to crash and leave investors unable to make transactions until Robinhood engineers solve the issues. The engineers need to focus on building a better infrastructure to scale and improve load balancing. 


The outages relate to a larger problem Robinhood must face, brand recognition and trust. These shutdowns on historic trading days angered many users who inevitably switched to Robinhood's competitors whose platforms never experience this problem. Robinhood has to scale better with its growth and high levels of traffic. I would also recommend a new Ad campaign that restores customer confidence in the platform. Another trust issue Robinhood faces is its order flow data. Investors and firms found great value in knowing what companies retail investors were pouring money into. Still, now Robinhood only gives this data to Citadel Securities, a global leading market maker. The move to sell that data exclusively to Citadel rubbed investors the wrong way and made people question Robinhood's integrity as a company. Robinhood needs to implement a marketing blitz to help rebuild customer trust in the company. 



The biggest problem that Robinhood must address is the dangers that occur inexperienced investors. Robinhood makes investing as easy as using Facebook. Users often too frivolously invest in companies or financial instruments they do not fully understand. In recent months, a teenager from Illionis took his own life after his account balance read -$70,6155. He left a not on his desk that said “How was a 20-year-old with no income able to get assigned almost a million dollars worth of leverage?”. Robinhood should put more safeguards into their app to protect inexperienced investors from themselves. Additionally, Tenev and Bajiu need to create more content for investors to educate them on responsible investing. There platform maybe user friendly to a fault. Younger investors tend to invest in riskier positions without enough knowledge of the potential ramifications. Robinhood could allocate resources to creating content to help users understand the seriousness of investing and require its completion before doing any form of trading, so the company wouldn't be liable for the irresponsibility of its users. Once the users complete the education, the app will unlock its functions, so users can trade. This would be a simple add on and the only challenge would be creating educational content for investors. 


